### Notes from kick-off telcon on 2nd June 2017

Attending: Dan Katz, Martin Fenner, Neil Chue Hong, August Muench, Kristian, David Kennedy, Mingfang Wu, Qian Zhang, Lars Holm Nielsen

These are raw notes from the chat log of the meeting.

Neil (01:02 pm)
https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/index.md

Daniel S. Katz (01:03 pm)
https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/projects/1

Neil (01:04 pm)
This group builds on the previous Software Citation Working Group, which developed and publicized an initial set of software citation principles (https://doi.org/10.7717/peerj-cs.86).  The activities of the Software Citation Implementation Working Group will be conducted with relevant stakeholders (publishers, librarians, archivists, funders, repository developers, other community forums with related working groups, etc.) to:
- endorse the principles
- develop sets of guidelines for implementing the principles
- help implement the principles
- test specific implementations of the principles.
During this process, the principles may also be updated based on feedback from the activities.

Daniel S. Katz (01:04 pm)
description - https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/index.md

Neil (01:15 pm)
- August Muench
- Kristian
- David Kennedy
- Mingfang Wu
- Qian Zhang
August: software citation in astronomy

August Muench (01:17 pm)
https://github.com/AASJournals/Tutorials/blob/master/Repositories/CitingRepositories.md

Neil (01:20 pm)
Kristian: developer at DataCite. Interest in supporting reference managers.
David: co-leader of NITRC neuroimaging clearing house. Want to ensure implementing best practice for software.

Mingfang Wu (01:22 pm)
https://researchdata.ands.org.au/search/#!/rows=15/sort=score%20desc/class=collection/q=software/p=1/

davidkennedy (01:23 pm)
NITRC, in general: http://www.nitrc.org/

Mingfang Wu (01:25 pm)
(link removed to presentation)

Neil (01:25 pm)
Mingfang: ANDS business analyst. Learn how to improve practice of software publishing / description at ANDS, to help provide advice to ANDS partners. ANDS want software metadata description standout from research data. Coordinating Australian Software Citation interest group.

Neil (01:26 pm)
Note: do not add google drive link above to GitHub without permission from speaker
Qian: postdoc at UIUC. Looking to enable support for citation in RDM services. Example of an implementation case.

Daniel S. Katz (01:30 pm)
And I see Lars has joined since Neil created the speaker list

Neil (01:32 pm)
Lars: Collaboration with August. Service manager of Zenodo, experience to share with the group. Optimise how we archive software and get it cited. Issue about getting citations back to Zenodo.

Neil (01:35 pm)
Martin: DataCite interest in understanding how to implement for software

Martin Fenner (01:35 pm)
Feel free to add issues, or add comments to one of the existing issues: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues

Neil (01:36 pm)
Dan: chair of previous group. Previous as a funder, interested in how that this can be used to help improve projects. Also improve careers.

Martin Fenner (01:37 pm)
Neil works for the Software Sustainabilty Institute. He is interested n pushing better career paths for researchers writing software, so needs to understand what makes software citation work.
Secondly, understand how citations can be found and collected.

Neil (01:39 pm)
Feedback and questions on the group?

Daniel S. Katz (01:39 pm)
https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/index.md

Neil (01:39 pm)
What are the first things that we should address to help?
David would like to know how NITRC could promote principles.
JATS support for software citation.

Martin Fenner (01:45 pm)
Github issue regarding JATS for software citation: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues/7

Martin Fenner (01:49 pm)
DataCite Metadata WG is working on software citation support in DataCite metadata. https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues/14

Neil (01:50 pm)
Dan, Martin and Neil will take input from the calls and create a list of potential tasks. Will be useful to know what people are really interested in working on. We’ll surface these as GitHub issues, so please make sure you know where this is.

Qian Zhang (01:51 pm)
Hi all, sorry i need to run for another meeting. i am wondering if we could start with some specific software (better keeps evolving) to implement for. nice meeting you all! i’ll check the notes later. thanks! bye.

Neil (01:51 pm)
We’ll organise future calls via Doodle.
By next call, have a list of low hanging fruit that we can tackle first and people can participate.
