## Notes from Telcon on 5th June 2018

Previous Calls:
 - [June 2, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170602-Notes.md)
 - [June 6, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170606-Notes.md)
 - [October 10, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20171010-Notes.md)
 - [February 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180206-Notes.md)
 - [March 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180306-Notes.md)
 - [April 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180403-Notes.md)
 - [May 8, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180508-Notes.md)


### Call logistics

 - Calls normally take place on the first Tuesday of every month at 2 PM GMT or BST.
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - We use Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/826409840
 - You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code: 826 409 840 - see bottom of this document for telephone numbers
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.

### Attending



### Actions

 * ACTION: All to open issues in GitHub to disseminate things they're working on - STANDING
 * ACTION: Dan, Martin and Neil to organize issues and notes into themes and activities 
 * ACTION: Martin Fenner to do draft of identifier discussion, reviewed by Morane and Roberto
 * ACTION: Dan/Martin/Neil/Roberto to scope out potential for joint RDA/FORCE11 Software Identifiers WG 
 * ACTION: Dan, Martin and Neil will come up with a brief process for suggesting, initiating and managing task forces 


## Agenda

### DOI Registrations for Software (Martin)

Discussion of points raised from this blogpost: https://blog.datacite.org/doi-registrations-software/

### Starting up taskforces (Martin and Neil)

#### General logistics

- Task forces will be suggested using GitHub issues. Before initiation, those involved in the task force should identify: who's involved, a timeline, what will be delivered/achieved.
- Monthly call used to keep task forces coordinated with each other, as well as reporting to the community
- Aim to scope out initial goals for each task force

#### Codemeta Taskforce (Martin)

https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues/57

#### Guidance Taskforce (Neil)

https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues/56

#### Publish Adoption Taskforce (Dan)

https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues/58

#### Repository Best Practice (Alice)

https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues/59

### Status updates on implementation (Open)

Placeholder for people to mention relevant updates

### Schedule for future calls

- July: NLM Pilot (J. Alex Sticco)
- August:
- September: FORCE2018 Planning
 



## Zoom Instructions

Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG
 - When    Monthly from 15:00 to 16:00 on the first Tuesday Berlin
 - Where   (https://zoom.us/j/826409840

Please join this meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone: https://zoom.us/j/826409840

You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code / Meeting ID: 826 409 840

Join by telephone: 
 - Australia: +61 (0) 2 8015 2088
 - Canada: +1 647 558 0588
 - France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188
 - Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188
 - UK: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088
 - USA: +1 408 740 3766 or +1 646 876 9923 or +1 669 900 6833
 - other dialin numbers: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
 
 Test whether you can connect to a Zoom meeting: https://zoom.us/test
