## Notes from Codemeta Task Force Telcon on 25 September 2019

### Call logistics

 - Wednesday September 25 at 1 PM GMT (3 PM CEDT, 9 AM EDT). https://zoom.us/j/457770647. Meeting ID: 457 770 647. Find your local number: https://zoom.us/u/acXJMQDLlg
 - Call schedule needs to be decided.
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.

### Attending

* Arfon Smith
* Melissa Harrison
* Morane Gruenpeter
* Alice Allen
* Tim Clark
* Tom Morrell
* Daina Bouquin
* Martin Fenner

### Actions

* we will have monthly calls the last Wednesday of the month at 2 PM GMT, next call on October 30.
* some of us will meet at the Force2019 hackathon on October 15 and continue the work there. The repository task force will do a workshop in November where codemeta will also be a topic
* Morane will make a list of tools working with codemeta until the Force2019 conference

## Agenda

* define scope for task force. Proposal: fully align codemeta with schema.org metadata schema.
* if we align codemeta with schema.org, what does that mean for codemeta documentation, Crosswalk table, use of other schema.org properties, etc. Come up with proposal for Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG
* do work at Force2019 hackathon on October 15?
* logistics: task force co-chairs, schedule for upcoming calls

## Notes

This is the second call of the Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG Codemeta Task Force, after a hiatus of 12 months ([call notes 20 August 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180820-codemeta.md)). The task force will specifically work on aligning with the [Codemeta Project](https://codemeta.github.io/). We decided that a monthly call for the next 6-12 months would be appropriate, and some of us will meet in person at the [Force2019 hackathon](https://force2019.sched.com/event/U2pI/research-software-hackathon) on October 15.

Martin proposed that the main task of the task force should be to work on full support of codemeta in schema.org. Most terms are already coming from schema.org, the remaining 10 terms are listed at [Terms from schema.org and codemeta](https://codemeta.github.io/terms/). There was general agreement in the call to take that path. We clarified what this means in the discussion.

We then discussed the various activities that should be included, and came up with:

* schema.org definitions for remaining codemeta terms, work with the schema.org community to adopt them
* documentation of examples, complementary to the schema.org documentation. Updates of crosswalk table as needed.
* documentation of tools working with codemeta, and building of new tools as needed
* outreach and adoption work, coordinated with the Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG and the other task forces
* discussion of sustainability

In the next call on October 30 we will report from the Force2019 hackathon and will work out a schedule for the five activities as well as responsibilities.
