## Notes from Codemeta Task Force Telcon on 27 November 2019

### Call logistics

 - November 27 at 3 PM GMT (4 PM CEDT, 10 AM EDT). https://zoom.us/j/978215790. 
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.
 - next calls will be on January 15 and February 26 at 3 PM GMT, using https://zoom.us/j/978215790. Meeting-ID: 358-589-302. Find your local number: https://zoom.us/u/acXJMQDLlg

### Actions

* because of Christmas holidays next call will be on January 15, then again February 26, with no call on December 25. Calendar invites have been sent to the whole working group by Martin Fenner.
* In January 15 call we will discuss progress in defining properties.

## Notes

We started with a short report from the repositories workshop by Alice Allen and Tom Morrell, with a focus on Codemeta. More info at https://github.com/ASCLnet/SWRegistryWorkshopâ€©

The focus of the remainder of the call was on starting work to describe all codemeta properties using schema.org. Most properties use schema.org, but 10 properties do not yet. Morane Gruenpeter walked us through the document she created: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1s2mUS9JjIOq-4-0rZTFNaTO7W9umNF4mCf-uypPwGsQ/edit

The 10 properties to work on are listed in the following document: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VmUBdgaC7mtj7gDNqTBzPUdosux1R26Cyp7qA7WHkNA/edit#gid=758659753
During the call we assigned a lead for the work on each of these properties. We will discuss the progress in the call on January 15.
