## Notes from Telcon on 2 June 2020

Previous Calls:
 - [June 2, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170602-Notes.md)
 - [June 6, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170606-Notes.md)
 - [October 10, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20171010-Notes.md)
 - [February 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180206-Notes.md)
 - [March 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180306-Notes.md)
 - [April 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180403-Notes.md)
 - [May 8, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180508-Notes.md)
 - [June 5, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180605-Notes.md)
 - [July 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180703-Notes.md)
 - [August 7, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180807-Notes.md)
 - [September 4, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180904-Notes.md)
 - [October 2, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181002-Notes.md)
 - [November 13, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181113-Notes.md)
 - [June 4, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190604-Notes.md)
 - [July 2, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190702-Notes.md)
 - [August 6, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190806-Notes.md)
 - [September 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190903-Notes.md)
 - [December 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20191203-Notes.md)
 - [January 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200107-Notes.md)
 - [February 4, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200204-Notes.md)
 - [March 3, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200303-Notes.md)
 - [April 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200407-Notes.md)
 - [May 5, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200505-Notes.md)


### Call logistics

 - Calls normally take place on the first Tuesday of every month at 3 PM CET / CEST.
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - We use Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/826409840
 - You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code: 826 409 840 - see bottom of this document for telephone numbers
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.

### Attending

- Neil Chue Hong
- Daina Bouquin
- Martin Fenner
- Alejandro Gonzalez Beltran
- Lorraine Hwang
- Shelley Stall
- Qian Zhang

### Apologies
- Stephan Druskat
- Morane Gruenpeter
 
### Actions

Standing:
 * ACTION: Someone to send out reminders of these calls & someone to take notes during these calls - rotating between Dan, Neil, Martin
 * ACTION: All to open issues in GitHub to disseminate things they're working on

One off:
 * ACTION: Discussion on whether we should refactor the various calls, and interaction between different WGs, IGs, and taskforces in this area to be put on agenda for future call.
 * ACTION: Neil to send reminder to comment on NISO Reproducibility Badging and RDA COVID-19 Data and Software Guidance to mailing list

## Agenda and Notes

### Summary of NISO Reproducibility Badging recommendation

- Slides: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/slides/20200601%20F11%20SCIWG%20NISO%20Reproducibility.pdf
- Draft recommendation is open for public comment until June 18, 2020.
- View the draft recommendation, add a comment and view comments received: https://www.niso.org/standards-committees/reproducibility-badging
  
### Update from task forces

#### Journals Task Force (Shelley)
   - May meeting notes: 
   - May meeting notes: 
   - Lot of engagement from publishers
   - Working through text developed by the primer team (Dan, Shelley, Neil, Tim, Gus)
   - Challenges within the publisher infrastructure that had not previously been properly addressed - this gives something to help keep up momentum going
   
#### Repositories Task Force
   - No update this month
   
#### CodeMeta task force (Martin)
   - Work is near to wrapping up
   - Discussed all properties we'd like to add
   - Need to write this all up, and raise as issues for CodeMeta in their GitHub repo
   - Then talk to schema.org community to address 
   - Should there be a CodeMeta 2.0 as a result of the updates and changes?
   - Group can wrap up when changes resolved in CodeMeta
   - Then may need to spin-up new task forces: CodeMeta adoption / dissemination and also Schema.org integration - to be discussed in future

   
### AOB

- The 5th and final draft of the RDA COVID-19 recommendations and guidelines, which includes software has been published: https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/rda-covid19-rda-covid19-omics-rda-covid19-epidemiology-rda-covid19-clinical-rda-covid19-0 
- The recommendation is open for public comment until June 8, 2020
   * ACTION: Neil to send reminder to comment on NISO Reproducibility Badging and RDA COVID-19 Data and Software Guidance to mailing list
 
### Call Logistics

- Possible future topics / People to invite on calls
   - CHAOSS - how does citation fit in with other metrics? Matt Germonprez or Sean Goggins
   - ReSA - introduction? Michelle Barker?
   - New CFF schema
   - Measuring uptake (get a speaker who has experience of doing something similar?)
     - maybe do this a couple of times - soon and in a while
     - could we learn from someone working in data citation?
     - Martin to talk about Sloan project coming soon with DataCite?

- Chair Rota (also responsibility for sending reminders and inviting speakers):
   - July 7, 2020: Dan (Neil not available)
   - Aug 4, 2020: Martin
   - Sep 1, 2020: Neil
   - Oct 6, 2020: Dan?
   - Nov 3, 2020: Martin?
   - Dec 1, 2020: Neil?

- Proposed structure of calls
   - Invited speaker on related topic (30 mins)
   - Updates from task forces (15 mins)
   - AOB (10 mins)

## Zoom Instructions

Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG
 - When    Monthly from 15:00 to 16:00 on the first Tuesday Berlin
 - Where   https://zoom.us/j/826409840

Please join this meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone: https://zoom.us/j/826409840

You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code / Meeting ID: 826 409 840

Join by telephone: 
 - Australia: +61 (0) 2 8015 2088
 - Canada: +1 647 558 0588
 - France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188
 - Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188
 - UK: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088
 - USA: +1 408 740 3766 or +1 646 876 9923 or +1 669 900 6833
 - other dialin numbers: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
 
 Test whether you can connect to a Zoom meeting: https://zoom.us/test
