## Notes from Telcon on 1 September 2020

Previous Calls:
 - [June 2, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170602-Notes.md)
 - [June 6, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170606-Notes.md)
 - [October 10, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20171010-Notes.md)
 - [February 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180206-Notes.md)
 - [March 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180306-Notes.md)
 - [April 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180403-Notes.md)
 - [May 8, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180508-Notes.md)
 - [June 5, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180605-Notes.md)
 - [July 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180703-Notes.md)
 - [August 7, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180807-Notes.md)
 - [September 4, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180904-Notes.md)
 - [October 2, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181002-Notes.md)
 - [November 13, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181113-Notes.md)
 - [June 4, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190604-Notes.md)
 - [July 2, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190702-Notes.md)
 - [August 6, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190806-Notes.md)
 - [September 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190903-Notes.md)
 - [December 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20191203-Notes.md)
 - [January 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200107-Notes.md)
 - [February 4, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200204-Notes.md)
 - [March 3, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200303-Notes.md)
 - [April 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200407-Notes.md)
 - [May 5, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200505-Notes.md)
 - [June 2, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200602-Notes.md)
 - [July 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200707-Notes.md)
 - [August 4, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200804-Notes.md)


### Call logistics

 - Calls normally take place on the first Tuesday of every month at 3 PM CET / CEST.
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - We use Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/826409840
 - You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code: 826 409 840 - see bottom of this document for telephone numbers
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.

### Attending

- Neil P. Chue Hong
- Martin Fenner
- Daniel S. Katz
- Morane Gruenpeter
- David N. Kennedy
- Frank Löffler
- August Muench
- Shelley Stall
- Qian Zhang


### Apologies
- Margareta Hellström
 
### Actions

Standing:
 * ACTION: Someone to send out reminders of these calls & someone to take notes during these calls - rotating between Dan, Neil, Martin
 * ACTION: All to open issues in GitHub to disseminate things they're working on

One off:
 * ~~ACTION: Discussion on whether we should refactor the various calls, and interaction between different WGs, IGs, and taskforces in this area to be put on agenda for future call - DISCUSSED ON THIS CALL~~


## Agenda and Notes
  
### Updates from task forces

#### Journals Task Force (Dan/Shelley)
   - [Minutes from July meeting of task force](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qs_n5VehoUmhvmUqPc90f2DGH4hf6vFJz2ip6LOba9Y/edit)
   - Software Citation Primer is nearly done. Discussion taking place about where it could be published as a document, and also how to send it around publishers and journals.
      - David suggested that Neuroinformatics could publish.
      - Neil suggested we could a note / communication / letter style piece in many journals via responsive editors to raise awareness.
      - Shelley suggested we could create a comms package (Tweets, etc) for publishers.
   - Task force is now starting work on improving the way that metadata is being collected and passed between systems in the scholarly publishing pipelines. 
      - Next month this will include discussion of the CrossRef schema changes, and how this affects software
   
#### Repositories Task Force (Alice)
   - No update
   
#### CodeMeta task force (Martin)
   - Regular meetings have now stopped, and task force is concentrating on writing up.
      - Progress in August was stalled because of vacation
      - Once writing up is complete, proposed changes will be sent to the Schema.org folks with request for incorporation
      - Unclear about the timeline after the proposals have been submitted. 
   - This GitHub issue details all the properties: https://github.com/codemeta/codemeta/issues/232
   - Some of the comments are about the CodeMeta vocabulary itself, so there's also a timeline for evolution of CodeMeta 2.0 to CodeMeta 3.0. 
   - Also more documentation is required before people can use the proposed new schema, but the adventurous could start building by the end of the year
   - The EOSC Research Infrastructure WG led by Roberto Di Cosmo had a discussion of CodeMeta's Rosetta Stone functionality - it is worth going back to make sure that crosswalks capture what people are using today and crosswalk to CodeMeta 3.0.

#### Software Source Code Identification WG (Morane)

   - Community review period for [Use Cases and Identier Schemes document]( https://www.rd-alliance.org/group/rdaforce11-software-source-code-identification-wg/outcomes/use-cases-and-identifier-schemes) ends on September 4th
      - Document includes current state of the art 
      - Maps use cases and identifier schemes, but doesn't give recommendations 
      - Useful for people who are providing recommendations
   - Things to note from this work: 
      - Different identifiers address different use cases (not just software citation)
      - Software isn't homogenous; not just one sort of software
   - Comments and endorsements on the RDA website, but for more detailed suggestions put in Google document 

### AOB

#### Discussion on purpose of this call, and potential topics / speakers to invite.

   - The main purpose of this call is to bring the community who are interested in software citation and related topics up-to-speed with what is happening in this area
      - The "call for lurkers"!
   - It's also useful to get in speakers on topics that can either help give a different perspective / insight on the work we're doing, or to introduce an area, project or initiative that we think will be useful for the software citation community to know about
   - Potential topics suggested were:
      - Linking, indexing and machine readable credit:
         - Overview of Scholix (Martin Fenner?)
         - Alt-metrics / Impact Indexes (Stefanie Haustein?)
         - How do we handle aggregation of versions / dependencies in giving credit for software citations?
         - Overview of [Ascepias](https://asclepias-broker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) work looking at Zenodo / NASA ADS / AAS (Alexandros Ioannidis /   Jose Benito Gonzalez Lopez / August Muench?)
         - Overview of how PubMedCentral deal with identifiers
      - Topics related to challenges paper:
         - Update on IMLS funded activity (Daina Bouquin)
         - How do we get authors to record and supply metadata (potentially a speaker from a software catalogue?)
         - Sociological frictions and how we understand and overcome them (potentially a social sciences expert working in this area?)
      - Topics related to development of software platforms that paper authors are using to help software citation (rather than the research software they're developing themselves)
         - Overview of JOSS / OJ underlying software (Arfon Smith?)
         - Overview of how different journal systems (e.g. OJS, PubSweet) handle software objects and metadata
         - How might code repositories support software citation / make it easier?
      - RSEs as a means to work with developers who need to get credit for the research software they're developing
      - How software citation affects / enables Reusability (as opposed to just Findability and Accessibility)
      - Access to software - distribution and publishing platforms, and how these relate to software citation
      
As part of this discussion, we noted that an issue is that the model for citations is different from the way that software is developed, and may not be as compatible as with datasets. Are there other research objects that are more like software than data? E.g. websites, specimen collections.

___
 
### Call Logistics

- Possible future topics / People to invite on calls
   - CHAOSS - how does citation fit in with other metrics? Matt Germonprez or Sean Goggins
   - New CFF schema
   - Measuring uptake (get a speaker who has experience of doing something similar?)
     - maybe do this a couple of times - soon and in a while
     - could we learn from someone working in data citation?
     - Martin to talk about Make Data Count Sloan project starting in August

- Chair Rota (also responsibility for sending reminders and inviting speakers):
   - Sep 1, 2020: Neil
   - Oct 6, 2020: Dan
   - Nov 3, 2020: Martin?
   - Dec 1, 2020: Neil?

- Proposed structure of calls
   - Invited speaker on related topic (30 mins)
   - Updates from task forces (15 mins)
   - AOB (10 mins)

## Zoom Instructions

Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG
 - When    Monthly from 15:00 to 16:00 on the first Tuesday Berlin
 - Where   https://zoom.us/j/826409840

Please join this meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone: https://zoom.us/j/826409840

You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code / Meeting ID: 826 409 840

Join by telephone: 
 - Australia: +61 (0) 2 8015 2088
 - Canada: +1 647 558 0588
 - France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188
 - Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188
 - UK: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088
 - USA: +1 408 740 3766 or +1 646 876 9923 or +1 669 900 6833
 - other dialin numbers: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
 
 Test whether you can connect to a Zoom meeting: https://zoom.us/test
