## Notes from Telcon on 6 Apr 2020

Previous Calls:
 - [June 2, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170602-Notes.md)
 - [June 6, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20170606-Notes.md)
 - [October 10, 2017](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20171010-Notes.md)
 - [February 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180206-Notes.md)
 - [March 6, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180306-Notes.md)
 - [April 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180403-Notes.md)
 - [May 8, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180508-Notes.md)
 - [June 5, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180605-Notes.md)
 - [July 3, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180703-Notes.md)
 - [August 7, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180807-Notes.md)
 - [September 4, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20180904-Notes.md)
 - [October 2, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181002-Notes.md)
 - [November 13, 2018](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20181113-Notes.md)
 - [June 4, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190604-Notes.md)
 - [July 2, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190702-Notes.md)
 - [August 6, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190806-Notes.md)
 - [September 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20190903-Notes.md)
 - [December 3, 2019](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20191203-Notes.md)
 - [January 7, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200107-Notes.md)
 - [February 4, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200204-Notes.md)
 - [March 3, 2020](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/meetings/20200303-Notes.md)

### Call logistics

 - Calls normally take place on the first Tuesday of every month at 2 PM GMT or BST.
 - Notes will be published at: https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/tree/master/meetings
 - We use Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/826409840
 - You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code: 826 409 840 - see bottom of this document for telephone numbers
 - Participants can raise things that they are working on / want to bring peoples attention to by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/issues). The co-chairs will curate and tag these issues as required, and maintain a document linking to them to summarise current status.

### Attending

- Dan Katz
- Martin Fenner
- Lorraine Hwang
- Daina Bouquin
- David Kennedy
- Shelly Stall
- Neil Chue Hong
- Frank LÃ¶ffler
- 

### Apologies
- Morane Gruenpeter
- 
 
### Actions

Standing:
 * ACTION: Someone to send out reminders of these calls & someone to take notes during these calls - rotating between Dan, Neil, Martin
 * ACTION: All to open issues in GitHub to disseminate things they're working on

One off:
 * ACTION: Discussion on whether we should refactor the various calls, and interaction between different WGs, IGs, and taskforces in this area to be put on agenda for future call.

## Agenda and Notes

### Recap of Relevant RDA Virtual Plenary 15 Sessions

- Two software related sessions at RDA15, co-organised by members of this WG:
  - Fair Principles for Research Software
    - https://www.rd-alliance.org/fair-principles-research-software - notes in https://docs.google.com/document/d/19-VzECamBP7V1Aa-6zug0SbAGk8gndm2avjtrzcAloE/edit
    - public summary posted on https://docs.google.com/document/d/19-VzECamBP7V1Aa-6zug0SbAGk8gndm2avjtrzcAloE/edit#
    - working group likely to start soon under RDA, FORCE11, and ReSA
  - Software Source Code identification
    - https://www.rd-alliance.org/use-cases-and-software-source-code-identification - notes in https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C3Q-O0FHg9pbVDH35olfhFTEGaZ1nnebBoFg_hX1xC8/edit
    - public summary coming soon
    - next step for this Working Group is to work on an output that clarifies and harmonizes the usage of different identifiers
  - Research Schemas WG
    - https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/research-metadata-schemas-wg - notes in https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Oo32J8BoyIaWv90zIu17pdv64lqc6LW23qekrxUMYlk/edit
    - working group provides a platform to complement, build on and extend efforts from bioschema.org, science-on-schema.org and the like communities in applying and extending the core schema.org vocabulary for describing research datasets and related resources. 
    - work by Codemeta Task Force is closely related to the scope of the working group, and Martin Fenner gave a short presentation on codemeta in the session
  
### Update from task forces

- Journals Task Force
   - March meeting notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NeRQt9za3i7PL0ArXgBku44W9oq6_QaFcGKXYrJf7ks/edit
   - A lot of new representatives joined
   - Discussion of draft set of goals, draft guidance
   - Next call to continue discussion on draft guidance (https://github.com/force11/force11-sciwg/blob/master/guidance/software_citation_primer.md)
   
- Repositories Task Force
   - Funder of registries workshop has allowed PIs to reallocate unspent travel funds to developer time, so team can provide more support and assistance to repos/registries who want help in creating codemeta/cff files for their entries. 
   - No recent task force calls
 
- CodeMeta task force 
   - Last call March 25, making good progress
   - Going through properties in CodeMeta that appear to not be in schema.org, heading towards CodeMeta being incorporated into schema.org
   - No blockers found
   - Coming soon, maybe in a couple of months: discussion with schema.org community about incorporation of CodeMeta info

- Guidance Task Force
   - Suspended for now (formally done)
      - Will restart if there is a requirement for a new version of the documents, or if additional documents are required
      - Remind people of how they can provide feedback and send message about suspension   
   
### AOB


- Possible topics / People to invite on calls
   - CHAOSS - how does citation fit in with other metrics? Matt Germonprez or Sean Goggins
   - ReSA - introduction? Michelle Barker?
   - New CFF schema
   - Measuring uptake (get a speaker who has experience of doing something similar?)
     - maybe do this a couple of times - soon and in a while
     - could we learn from someone working in data citation?
     - Martin to talk about Sloan project coming soon with DataCite?

- Chair Rota (also responsibility for sending reminders and inviting speakers):
   - May 5: Martin (Neil not available) 
   - June 2: Neil
   - July 7: Dan (Neil not available)
   - Aug 4: Martin
   - Sep 1: Neil

- Proposed structure of future calls
   - Invited speaker on related topic (30 mins)
   - Updates from task forces (15 mins)
   - AOB (10 mins)

## Zoom Instructions

Force11 Software Citation Implementation WG
 - When    Monthly from 15:00 to 16:00 on the first Tuesday Berlin
 - Where   https://zoom.us/j/826409840

Please join this meeting from your computer, tablet or smartphone: https://zoom.us/j/826409840

You can also dial in using your phone. Access Code / Meeting ID: 826 409 840

Join by telephone: 
 - Australia: +61 (0) 2 8015 2088
 - Canada: +1 647 558 0588
 - France: +33 (0) 1 8288 0188
 - Germany: +49 (0) 30 3080 6188
 - UK: +44 (0) 20 3695 0088
 - USA: +1 408 740 3766 or +1 646 876 9923 or +1 669 900 6833
 - other dialin numbers: https://zoom.us/zoomconference
 
 Test whether you can connect to a Zoom meeting: https://zoom.us/test
